# UcBerkeley-Econ140
# Economic Statistics and Econometrics: ECON 140

Course Description:                                                                                           
This course will introduce you to the basic statistical skills used in empirical economic research and provide you with the theoretical tools and practical experience necessary to do applied econometric research. By the end of the course you are expected to be able to run and evaluate multiple regression models, perform basic hypothesis testing, interpret the results and evaluate their significance.

The four stages of the scientific method are observation, hypothesis, testing, and discussion.  This indicates that competently handling data upon which observations and testing are based is a high priority in any scientific endeavor.  If you have followed your degree plan, you have completed micro and macroeconomics so have a working understanding of how economists think about the economy.  But the rational upright ape at this point, if not before, should ask whether or not this is the way the world works.  So, econometrics is the combination of economic theory and statistics to test economic hypotheses from micro and macroeconomics theory to evidence.  And if you are like my Texas economics and finance students, you have delayed taking econometrics because you heard it was among the most difficult courses in the major.  It is!  But, mastering it offsets the effort you extend to learn the material.  Like no other course in my undergraduate experience, my time spent learning econometrics has been the most rewarded courses and has changed the way I look at the world.   My objective this semester is to do the same with you, change the way you look at the world. 
